# CRISPIM-A-U-Net-based-denoising-technique-for-severely-noisy-3D-SPIM-Light-Sheet-Microscope-images

2023-12-26, Wonjin Cho @ KAIST

1	PROJECT GOAL AND BACKGROUND
Selective Plane Illumination Microscopy (SPIM), also known as light-sheet microscopy, has become an increasingly important tool in biology [1]. SPIM is a fluorescence optical microscopy technique that employs a planar illumination and an orthogonally oriented detection path [2]. While other common microscopy techniques, such as widefield and confocal microscopy, have inherent disadvantages such as limited sectioning, increased phototoxicity and a slower frame rate, SPIM circumvents these issues by selectively illuminating only the portion of the sample being imaged, enabling high-throughput volumetric imaging of an intact sample with minimal photobleaching [3]. 
An inevitable issue in digital imaging, including SPIM, is the presence of noise [4]. Noise in digital images is a random variation of brightness or color information, and is usually an aspect of electronic noise. It can be produced by the image sensor and circuitry of a scanner or digital camera. Noise is always present in digital images during the image capture, coding, transmission, and processing stages [5].
The noise problem in SPIM is more salient than in other microscopy modalities [6], [7]. This is primarily due to the interaction between the excitation sheet and the detection objective point spread function (PSF) of a SPIM [3]. The spatial variation of the PSF is determined by this interaction, leading to spatially varying blur and a combination of Poisson and Gaussian noise. 
A number of techniques were developed to denoise the microscopy images [8]–[10]. Recent advancements in denoising microscopy images have leveraged various machine learning techniques to improve image quality. For instance, Fuentes-Hurtado et al. proposed a novel framework for few-shot microscopy image denoising that combines generative adversarial networks (GANs) and contrastive learning [9]. Their approach, which was demonstrated on three well-known microscopy imaging datasets, drastically reduces the amount of training data required while retaining the quality of the denoising. Another study by Joucken et al. focused on denoising scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) images [11]. They trained a convolutional neural network on STM images simulated based on a tight-binding electronic structure model. The network was trained on a set of simulated images with varying characteristics such as tip height, sample bias, atomic-scale defects, and non-linear background. Their approach was found to be superior to commonly-used filters in the removal of noise as well as scanning artifacts.
These studies highlight the potential of machine learning techniques in denoising microscopy images, providing a foundation for further research. However, the denoising methods that targets the SPIM images are yet to be explored. Denoising SPIM images might require a different approach compared to the denoising of other 2D microscopy images, because the 3D image of SPIM is a stack of images along the height, the continuity between the adjacent images in a 3D stack must remain intact. If there is a technique that can correct the noisy image of SPIM while taking the information from the adjacent images in a 3D stack into account, it will increase the quality of information that one can acquire from the images acquired from SPIM. Here, I demonstrate such technique, termed CRISPIM (Convolution-based Resolution Improvement on SPIM images). CRISPIM utilized a U-Net architecture for learning and correcting 3D images acquired through SPIM that are severely noisy (Gaussian noise with standard deviation up to 40).
By effectively reducing severe noise in 3D SPIM images, CRISPIM enhances the quality of the acquired images, thus will improve the reliability and accuracy of subsequent data analysis. With far-reaching implications for various fields in biology, CRISPIM broadens the applicability of SPIM, making it a more robust tool for imaging under challenging conditions.
